Shavon White 
Dr. Alex Christie 
IASC 2P02 
March 10th 2019 
Why We Should Keep Using Established Data Sets 
Foregrounding the subjective experience can lead to biases in the research findings. The reliance on externally produced data sets are done out of necessity due to the sheer amount of information that is needed to be processed and interpreted in order to make conclusive findings. The idea to make all scholars use different data fundamentally fragments the field as a whole. Beyond this, while the findings of one scholar’s work may be accurate, imposing such a rule means that others cannot pick up from where that scholar left their work. Instead, other scholars would have to begin from nothing and recollect and reinterpret the data. All this work and time spent constructing what is likely to be the same data set as the original scholars. To me, this doesn’t make much sense. As Moretti says in the reading from class, “a field this large cannot be understood by stitching together separate bits of knowledge about individual cases, because it isn’t a sum of individual cases: it’s a collective system, that should be grasped as such, as a whole” (Moretti) In order to grasp the entire concept of digital humanities, we must first begin to understand the system. It is impossible for one scholar to collect, interpret, and identify all the different aspects of digital humanities without relying on an external party for at least some of the data collection. Therefore, the system of interdependence between scholars and their work is crucial to understanding DH fully. Furthermore, abolishing the use of externally produced data sets invalidates many (if not all) of the research findings done before the abolishment that relied on third party data. 
Simply the fact that scientists use established data sets is not enough to justify not using them in the DH field. As Lauren Klein states in Digital Humanities: The Expanded Field, “...the methods employed by these scholars owe as much to approaches honed in the fields of women’s studies, labor studies, media studies, information studies, and the history of science as they do to digital humanities techniques.”(Klein). The dependence on scientific methods to produce results is a product of the nature of digital humanities. Science’s focus on empirical proof combined with the humanities quest for human understanding create a field that strives to prove and understand the modern human condition as well as how people and digital technology interact and evolve. 
 
When deciding how to progress the field of DH, I believe it is important to look at how the field has arrived at its current state. When looking at approaches taken by digital archaeologists, Jussi Parikka states that when looking at the both old and new media, they must be seen as “parallel lines”(Parikka 5). Not only that, but Jussi goes on to suggest that rather than beginning the research process as a “proper historian” or a “proper analyst”, the best course of action is to find a compromising middle ground between both approaches (Parikka 5) This compromise allows for the retention of not only both processes, but allows researchers to interpret the data using both approaches and then compare and contrast their findings with each other to better understand the processes themselves. “Foregrounding the subjective experience” is not so much a compromise as it is the intentional ignorance to the information generated beforehand.  
 
(Drucker’s Voyant Data Visualization) 
 
(Moretti’s Voyant Data Visualization) 
When I passed both Drucker’s and Moretti’s texts through Voyant’s visualizer, I found that Drucker’s text had a lot of uses of words such as “data”, “interpret”, “form” and “display”, which leads me to believe that Drucker’s own work is influencing their stance within the prompt (versus being an unbiased logical counter). I also find it ironic that Drucker is arguing for the abolishment of data sets, yet so much of her text is about data and interpretation. I also found that Moretti’s text seemed much more focused on literature than Drucker, who seems more interested in data representation. I would also say that Moretti’s apparent lack of interest in data representation makes me curious as to why  
When thinking of data as capta, we begin to understand that all knowledge is already grounded in the subjective human experience. It is because of this fact that using externally produced “data” should not be abolished. As I explained in my introductory paragraph, this fact means that forcing all scholars to create their own unique data sets forces a lot of pointless repetitive data collection. While scholars shouldn’t blindly repeat unverified information, most data sets are curated and verified, and their absence during the research process would surely be missed. 
 
Works Cited 
Lauren F. Klein, Matthew K. Gold, Digital Humanities: The Expanded Field, print edition, 2016 
Jussi Parikka, What Is Media Archaeology? Media, Culture & Society Cambridge and Malden, MA: Polity Press, 2012 
 
