For the Collaborative project, my team and I looked at the digital humanities tool Scalar. This tool allows researchers to publish media rich scholarly works in a format that is easy to use due to its design being purposefully modeled after blogs. This means that users can embed many different kinds of media into their work easily and can therefore expand on ideas and concepts that would have been otherwise very difficult to convey. My group decided to make a page detailing Spiderman (similar to a wikipedia page) and found that the tool was extremely easy to use. It also gives the user full control over how exactly the media is presented. This is an ideal tool for anyone looking to self publish.

When approaching collaborative scholarship, I try my best to contribute an equal amount as everyone else in the group. Working as part of a team vs as an individual helps to expand my thinking by showing me different perspectives on topics that I would have otherwise not fully explored or might have explored only partially. It also gives me a chance to learn from some of my peers that may have a better understanding of a certain concept than I do. For example,  Arijit (my group member for this project) had a better understanding of the concept of RDF modelling found [here](images/RDF.png), so by allowing him to work on, discuss, and present that aspect of the presentation helped me to learn more about the concept than if I tried to understand it on my own. Identifying and discussing similarities between Scalar and the tools previously looked at in class is something that I was able to do fairly easily, especially through the use of images to compare the interfaces of the tools. The commits to the images I used can be found [here](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/commit/25d3d1c6c2ccf52e9fcf62ca5bff65859359efbb).

When working on this project, I was the member that had to relate Scalar to our in class discussions and other tools discussed in the course. I created a few points to explain the similarities to other tools that can be found [here](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/commit/e05180449366a0327ac659373d3d38b78efcdd41). Finally I uploaded my final commit so everyone on the team knew my part of the project was done, seen [Here](https://github.com/IascAtBrock/IASC-2P02-TeamPresentations/issues/24)
